Workflow Cancellations (#5)
temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript: workflow-cancellations/canceling-activities.md

# Canceling an Activity from a Workflow

Activities in Temporal Workflows can be stopped or canceled from an external source, which is essential for adapting to changing conditions or requirements. However, for an Activity to be cancellable, it must regularly send "heartbeats" to the Temporal server. Remember, these heartbeats act as signals that the Activity is still in progress. The Activity should also specify a heartbeat timeout, indicating the maximum time allowed between heartbeats. Without regular heartbeats, the Temporal server cannot reliably cancel the Activity.

[Local Activities](https://docs.temporal.io/activities#local-activity) are an exception to this rule. These are Activities which are executed in the same process as the Workflow that initiated them and do not emit heartbeats. Despite this, they can still be canceled.

Activity Cancellation will:

> - Lets the Activity know it doesn't need to keep doing work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Let the Activity know it doesn't need to keep doing work
```

Author: fixed

> - Gives the Activity time to clean up any resources it has created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give the Activity time to clean up any resources it has created
```

Author: fixed

> When a Workflow decides to cancel an Activity, Temporal communicates this request, and the Activity can respond to it upon receiving the next heartbeat or at the end of its current operation. Once the Activity catches a cancellation request, it has the opportunity to perform cleanup, like releasing resources or reverting changes. It is important for the Activity to rethrow the cancellation error (`CancelledFailure`) for it to be recognized as canceled by Temporal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Workflow decides to cancel an Activity, Temporal communicates this request. The Activity can respond to it upon receiving the next heartbeat or at the end of its current operation. Once the Activity catches a cancellation request, it has the opportunity to perform cleanup, such as releasing resources or reverting changes. It is important for the Activity to rethrow the cancellation error (`CancelledFailure`) for it to be recognized as canceled by Temporal.
```

Author: fixed

> Note that An Activity can catch the cancellation request and choose to not cancel. However for a Workflow, if it receives a cancellation request, it must cancel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that an Activity can catch the cancellation request and choose to not cancel. However for a Workflow, if it receives a cancellation request, it must cancel.
```

> Here is an example of An Activity that sends progress Heartbeats and can be cancelled:

Author: fixed

```typescript
import {
  activityInfo,
  log,
  sleep,
  CancelledFailure,

>   Heartbeat,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  heartbeat,
```

} from "@temporalio/activity";

export async function fakeProgress(sleepIntervalMs = 1000): Promise<void> {
  try {
    // allow for resuming from Heartbeat
    const startingPoint = activityInfo().HeartbeatDetails || 1;
    log.info("Starting activity at progress", { startingPoint });
    for (let progress = startingPoint; progress <= 100; ++progress) {
      // simple utility to sleep in activity for given interval or throw if Activity is cancelled
      // don't confuse with Workflow.sleep which is only used in Workflow functions!
      log.info("Progress", { progress });
      await sleep(sleepIntervalMs);

>       Heartbeat(progress);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      heartbeat(progress);
```
